Reorganize the databases pages (#2883)
Scalingo/documentation: src/_posts/databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-changing-plan.md

---

At Scalingo, all databases addons plans are identified using a name made of two
or three parts separated by a dash (-). This name is made of:

1. a database ***type*** : `postgresql`
2. a ***class*** : either `sandbox`, `starter` or `business` (learn more about
   [classes]({% post_url databases/2000-01-01-overview %}#database-plans))
3. a ***size*** : specifying the amount of RAM available with the plan, in MB
   (only for starter and business classes).

You can change your PostgreSQL® for Scalingo addon plan whenever you want. The
operation is launched instantly, no manual input is required.

The impact on your application and the downtime vary depending on several
factors such as the current plan being used and the one you wish to change for
(see below for further information).

{% warning %}
While switching to a more powerful plan is rather safe, you should take extra
care when changing for a less powerful plan: please make sure the new plan can
handle all your data and fits your application workload.
{% endwarning %}

## Understanding the Plan Change Process

### From Starter to Starter

When changing the size of a Starter plan, the platform reboots the existing

> instance with the new size. This can lead to a small service interruption

Reviewer: issue: I think the service interruption is not optional, it will always happen, won't it?
```suggestion
instance with the new size. This leads to a small service interruption
```

during which the database is not available. This shouldn't exceed a few seconds
though.

| From (class) | To (class) | To (size) | Downtime | Duration     |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- | -------- | ------------ |
| Starter      | Starter    | Any       | **Yes**  | 2-10 seconds |

### From Starter to Business

When changing for a Business plan, the platform first starts a follower
instance with the targeted size. If necessary, it then reboots the primary
instance with the targeted size. There should be no downtime at all, thanks to

> the failover mechanism included with the Business plan.

Reviewer: question: are you sure about this one? If the database contains a lot of data. Is the follower already ready to receive requests?

Author: I don't know. My understanding is that the primary's plan change only occurs when the follower is ready. But... I'm not sure.

Who could I ask?

Author: @brandon-welsch can you confirm or amend pretty-please?

Reviewer 2: What is said is right
